content/docs/cli-overview.mdx, before:

---
title: CLI Overview
description: All about the command line version of the GitButler tool
---

In addition to the Desktop graphical client, GitButler ships with a command line interface that allows you to do all of the same powerful things that the GUI does, but from the terminal or via scripts or agents.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=loavN_hHuEs

This includes tooling for:

- [managing stacked and parallel branches](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/branching-and-commiting)
- [inspecting and diffing](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/insepecting)
- [an operations log and restoration of older states](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/operations-log)
- [powerful commit editing](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/rubbing)
- [upstream management](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/updating-the-base)
- [conflict resolution](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/conflict-resolution)
- [working with forges](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/forges)
- [aliases and configuration](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/configuration)

All with a simple command line tool.

Feel free to get started with our [Tutorial](cli-guides/installation) or just dig into the available commands.

Commit message:

cheat-sheet (#148)
* basic cheat sheet stuff

* better pdf generation

* update the actual cheat sheet

content/docs/cli-overview.mdx, after:

---
title: CLI Overview
description: All about the command line version of the GitButler tool
---

In addition to the Desktop graphical client, GitButler ships with a command line interface that allows you to do all of the same powerful things that the GUI does, but from the terminal or via scripts or agents.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=loavN_hHuEs

This includes tooling for:

- [managing stacked and parallel branches](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/branching-and-commiting)
- [inspecting and diffing](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/insepecting)
- [an operations log and restoration of older states](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/operations-log)
- [powerful commit editing](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/rubbing)
- [upstream management](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/updating-the-base)
- [conflict resolution](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/conflict-resolution)
- [working with forges](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/forges)
- [aliases and configuration](cli-guides/cli-tutorial/configuration)

All with a simple command line tool.

## Quick Reference

For a quick reference of the most commonly used commands, check out our [**GitButler CLI Cheat Sheet**](/cli/cheat) - available as a web page or downloadable PDF.

## Getting Started

Feel free to get started with our [Tutorial](cli-guides/installation) or just dig into the available commands.
