content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Welcome to GitButler
---

## Overview

GitButler is a new Source Code Management system designed to manage your branches, record and backup your work, be your Git client, help with your code and much more. Our focus is everything after writing code in your editor and before sharing it on GitHub. We're focused on your working directory and how we can help with everything you do there.

Here you will find documentation on the product and the way that we're running our alpha and building our product with your help.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZD24Ikxd1g

## Why We're Doing This

Read about it over [Why GitButler](/overview/why-gitbutler) Section.

## What We Do

Currently GitButler does two things. It records everything in a working directory that you have so that you can rewind to any point in time for any file you have. It also does a growing set of Git operations, soon to be a full fledged Git client. You can read more about these features here:

- [Virtual Branches](/features/virtual-branches/overview)
- [Project History](/features/timeline)

<img src="/img/dots-bowtie.svg" className="w-72 mx-auto" />

Commit message:

feat(getting-started): Add detailed guide with screenshots
The changes in this commit significantly expand the "Getting Started" guide with a step-by-step walkthrough, including screenshots, to help new users understand how to set up and use GitButler effectively. The guide covers importing a local repository, choosing a target branch, setting up Git authentication, doing work across multiple branches, committing changes, and integrating work via pull requests.

content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Welcome to GitButler
---

## Overview

GitButler is a new Source Code Management system designed to manage your branches, record and backup your work, be your Git client, help with your code and much more. Our focus is everything after writing code in your editor and before sharing it on GitHub. We're focused on your working directory and how we can help with everything you do there.

Here you will find documentation on the product and the way that we're running our beta and building our product with your help.

## Getting Started

Check out our [Getting Started](/getting-started/guide) guide to get started with GitButler.

## Latest Features

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZD24Ikxd1g

## Why We're Doing This

Read about it over [Why GitButler](/overview/why-gitbutler) Section.

## What We Do

Currently GitButler does two things. It records everything in a working directory that you have so that you can rewind to any point in time for any file you have. It also does a growing set of Git operations, soon to be a full fledged Git client. You can read more about these features here:

- [Virtual Branches](/features/virtual-branches/overview)
- [Project History](/features/timeline)

<img src="/img/dots-bowtie.svg" className="w-72 mx-auto" />
