content/docs/commands/commands-overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Commands Overview
description: Your fast index to all of the available commands
---

## Command Reference

### Inspection

- [status](./but-status): Overview of the uncommitted changes in the repository

### Committing

- [base](./but-base): Commands for managing the base branch
- [branch](./but-branch): Commands for managing branches
- [rub](./but-rub): Combine two entities together to perform an operation
- [commit](./but-commit): Commit changes to a stack
- [mark](./but-mark): Create or remove a rule for auto-assigning or auto-committing
- [unmark](./but-unmark): Remove all marks from the workspace

### Editing

- [describe](./but-describe): Edit the commit message of a specified commit
- [new](./but-new): Insert a blank commit before a specified commit or at the top of a stack
- [pick](./but-pick): Cherry-pick a commit from an unapplied branch into an applied virtual branch

### Forge Stuff

- [push](./but-push): Push a branch/stack to remote
- [publish](./but-publish): Publish review requests for active branches in your workspace
- [forge](./but-forge): Commands for interacting with forges like GitHub, GitLab, etc.

### Operations Log

- [oplog](./but-oplog): Show operation history
- [undo](./but-undo): Undo the last operation by reverting to the previous snapshot
- [restore](./but-restore): Restore to a specific oplog snapshot
- [snapshot](./but-snapshot): Create an on-demand snapshot with optional message

### AI Tools

- [mcp](./but-mcp): Start up the MCP server

Commit message:

fix manpages import (#146)
* Add update-manpages script and pnpm command

Provide a pnpm script to regenerate CLI manpages from the external
GitButler repo. The change adds an "update-manpages" npm script that
runs a new scripts/update-manpages.sh. The shell script changes into
../gitbutler (or a path provided as an arg), deletes old cli-docs/*,
runs `cargo run --bin but-clap` to regenerate the docs, then returns and
runs scripts/sync-commands.sh to copy the generated mdx files into this
repo. This automates refreshing CLI documentation and keeps the workflow
consistent with existing sync tooling.

* Place commands-overview at top of generated meta.json

Ensure the commands-overview page is the very first entry in the
generated meta.json when sync-commands.sh runs. Previously
commands-overview could be appended at the bottom; this change detects
and pushes it first, then filters it out from the miscellaneous
unassigned commands so it isn’t duplicated.

* ok, that's better

content/docs/commands/commands-overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Commands Overview
description: Your fast index to all of the available commands
---

## Command Reference

### Basics

- [setup](./but-setup): Setup a Git repository to be managed by GitButler
- [teardown](./but-teardown): Go back to vanilla Git branch management

### Inspection

- [status](./but-status): Overview of the uncommitted changes in the repository
- [diff](./but-diff): Show a diff of what's changed
- [show](./but-show): Show information about a branch or commit

### Branching and Committing

- [commit](./but-commit): Create commits on your branches
- [stage](./but-stage): Stage changes to a branch
- [branch](./but-branch): Commands for managing branches
- [discard](./but-discard): Remove changes
- [resolve](./but-resolve): Resolve commit conflicts
- [merge](./but-merge): Local branch merging

### Rules

- [mark](./but-mark): Create or remove a rule for auto-assigning or auto-committing
- [unmark](./but-unmark): Remove all marks from the workspace

### Server Interactions

- [push](./but-push): Push a branch/stack to remote
- [pull](./but-pull): Pull upstream changes and update your branches
- [pr](./but-pr): Commands for interacting with forges like GitHub, GitLab, etc.

### Editing Commits

- [rub](./but-rub): Combine two entities together to perform an operation
- [absorb](./but-absorb): Absorb changes into existing commits
- [reword](./but-reword): Edit the commit message of a specified commit
- [uncommit](./but-uncommit): Uncommit an existing commit
- [amend](./but-amend): Amend an existing commit with new changes
- [squash](./but-squash): Combine two commits into a single new commit
- [move](./but-move): Reorder commits or move a commit from one branch to another
- [pick](./but-pick): Cherry-pick a commit from an unapplied branch into an applied virtual branch

### Operations Log

- [oplog](./but-oplog): Show operation history
- [undo](./but-undo): Undo the last operation by reverting to the previous snapshot
